welcome to southern my name is Myers I'm
the production manager at southern
manufacturing hub in Kinston North
Carolina I laid our production table
purpose of these a southern
informational videos is to show you some
of the installation techniques that I
use there may be several different ways
that you would sauce other products and
if after seeing this video you have any
comments or questions or you would like
to share your favorite methods we would
love to hear from you
our contact information should be at the
bottom of the screen and now here's
today's ask southern comedy today we're
going to talk about stair rail we now
have the bottom rail in I'm going to
show you how I like to cut the top rail
or mark the top rail you would think at
this point you would load all the
pickets into the route what we're going
to do we're just going to load a couple
pickets of toward the ends but not right
toward the end and I'll show you why
because what we want to do is we want to
take our top rail set it into position
on our pickets
after we get our top rail positioned
over our two pickets it's as simple as
taking your level and plumbing your
picket
if this picket is plumb naturally this
ticket will be plumb and now again we
can use our post as a scribe we can mark
our top layer and cut it we now have our
top rail with the aluminum insert inside
cut and as as we did it with the
portrayal video we just loaded the
pickets in the bottom rail and what
we're going to do now is install our top
rail go get it in the right position I
like to start installing the top rail on
the bottom side of the step rail putting
the pickets in letting the the weight of
the rail fall over the pickets and just
work your way toward the top of the
steps what do you need to pick it in one
at a time and now we're ready for our
brackets we're sliding our top rail
brackets over our rail we've got this
the top one installed and we want to get
this bottom one on but we're going to
have an interference problem with the
picket too close to the post so we're
going to go ahead and trim the underside
of this bracket as we did the bottom
rail bracket earlier okay we've got our
bottom rail cut out to accommodate our
picket we'll slide that on and just like
the port rail or you can flip this rail
away from the post to be able to slip
your bracket on and then slide it back
into position you can see how the picket
just fits right over top of that bracket
how everything just marries together
right there for a nice clean look after
our brackets are attached we simply
finish off the screw holes with our plug
covers and then we can go ahead and put
our lock screws in through the bracket
system we've gone around and put our
locking screws in every bracket except
for this one right here before I do that
I want to show you something I want to
show you how important of these lock
screws are and I'm going to do that by
demonstrating right here I'm I'm going
to draw a line right here so that you
can see where the rail meets the bracket
and then what I'm going to do is I'm
just going to flex this post a little
bit and you can see how the rail moves
in and out of the bracket when I put
pressure on it
and what we're going to do is use our
lock screws with our snap caps now we're
going to put our lock screws in these
are self cutting so they go right
through the aluminum insert so there's
an ease now that screw is locked the
rail the bracket and the post all
together as one you finish it with our
snap cap and now
little to no movement these are entirely
locked together I want to show you a
couple of alternative brackets that you
can use in case of a shallow slope or a
steep set of stairs this bracket here
called our angle wizard is an adjustable
bracket they're just from zero degrees
to 45 degrees comes with all the screws
to attach the bracket to the place it
comes with these snap covers to hide the
screws if you look it's very hard to see
in here but there's a window in here and
there are actually letters or numbers
excuse me embossed those numbers are
specific degree of angle so if you slide
the window to you see the 45 in the
window then this bracket is preset at 45
degree this hole here you've run the
screw in the lock the bracket and it's a
very versatile user-friendly bracket
another bracket we offer here at
Southern mano this is what we call our
field cut bracket one bracket that looks
pretty plain right now but what this
bracket does because of its size it
gives us the flexibility to mark and cut
an angle within the bracket itself for
untypical applications one great use for
these as a lot of times you will have a
set of stairs that is flared out at the
bottom narrow at the top it flares at
the bottom and you can take this bracket
here and produce a compound miter in the
bracket to accommodate a special slope
like that also comes with the hardware
to attach it to the posts and here's a
completed installed section of stair
rail if you have any questions or
comments give us a call us other mom
[Music]